---
layout: post
categories: blog
title: Day 1 - 43 Days of Code
date: 2013-08-26
description: "Starting today I will be coding one 'thing' every days for - you guessed it - 43 days."
feature:
  image: typewriter.jpg
  overlay: true
light: true
---

Everyday I will be sitting down everyday to write some kinda of code. Whether it's a shell or ruby script, some convuluted javascript creation, or a rails project, my goal is to come up with some kind of project _and actaully do it_. 

### Why?

Because I want to learn. But more than that, because I want to put that learning to use. It's easy to hit up [codeschool](http://www.codeschool.com/users/zpnk), watch some vids, take notes, and run through the challenges, but I want to take what I've learned and put it to (somewhat) practical use. I also want to get in the habit of _just doing something_, rather than overthinking it and never doing it. However imperfect, however incomplete, it doesn't matter. As long as I can say I've learned (at least) three things, I'll wrap it up, push it to github, and call it a good day.

This idea is not that original, and is totally inspired by [Jen Dewalt](http://jenniferdewalt.com/) & her "180 websites in 180 day" project. Which brings me to me to the next question:

**Why 43?**

Why not 180?? Or 360?! Are you scared of commitment?!? Yes, yes, I realize 43 days isn't all that long really. Especially when you consider that [Jen is on day #147](http://blog.jenniferdewalt.com/post/59370709820/day-147-get-centered) (freaking impressive!). But given my propensity for quiting on projects -or worse - not even starting them, I wanted to go with something digestible and a number I could stick with even if I wanted to give up. Specifically, I got the number 43 from running `Random.new.rand(40..50)` in irb. What's better than leaving things up to chance?


**Ultimate Learning Goals**

1. Stop talking about things, and just do them.
2. Instead of absolute perfection, get better at finishing projects.
3. Work faster and be more productive.
4. Get more comfortable with programming in general.
5. Profit??? (Ie. Publicly show what I've learned and build a track record of my skills). 

### Who?

[@zpnk](http://twitter.com/zpnk). Duh. Just another [brogrammer](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=brogrammer).

### Day 1

Day one. Built this site [using Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com). Grabbed a copy of the [Balzac theme](https://github.com/coletownsend/balzac-for-jekyll), tore it to shreds, then stuck everything on Github pages (with a custom domain :p). Impressive, I know.

**What I learned**

1. How Jekyll actually works, and how to theme it.

	I'd read stuff on Jekyll before, but it wasn't until I jumped into it that I understood it. After spending 5+ hours hacking away with it, I think I have a pretty good grasp on it's structure and configuration. Templating is also really simple, and alot of the time I spent making this was tearing out all the extra stuff that came with the theme, and re-writing it in a simpler way. Next time I'll just start from scratch. 

2. Liquid templating is pretty cool. 

	Combined with custom variables in Jekyll's front-matter, there's no limit to the amount of customization you can do. This theme came with multiple layouts and includes which changed relatively little and was really repetative. It was just a pretty messy code-base. But once I figured out the whole custom variable thing, it was easy to simplify the multiple templates & includes down to just one, and leave it up to the per post/page variables to change things. Check out _includes and _layouts on the [Github repo for this site](https://github.com/zpnk/zpnk.github.io) to see what I mean.


3. `Unless` is pretty helpful.

	While building out the custom functionality, I found myself needing to do things except for certain cases where I'd specify otherwise. Basically, I wanted to have a default that would only be overridden if I added a key to a post's front matter. Trying this with an if statement just led to extra code, so with some Googling I found the unless statement. Basically, an unless statement is kind of a reverse if statement. Ie. it always runs, _unless_ a condition is met. This was exactly what I needed, and helped me simplify the code. Here's an example:

{% highlight html linenos %}
// If the no_footer variable actually exists, then don't show what's in here.
{ % unless page.no_footer %}
	//Otherwise show everything.
{ % endunless %}
{% endhighlight %}

Overall really productive day. Now I can check trying out Jekyll and getting a blog setup off my project list. 


#### _<s>INB4EDIT</s>_ Edited.